Welcome to session 125 about Apple Help.
One of the blocks on my good, better,
best diagram was titled Apple Help.
And I was talking about how providing
user assistance is really key.
And what's interesting to
note is that in the good,
better, best diagram,
providing user assistance with
Apple Help was in the good scenario.
It's one of the basic blocks of
building blocks for providing
a good user experience.
It's one of the basic
building blocks for Aqua.
So a lot of times people think
about help as sort of being the last
thing they do for their application.
And really,
it's one of the basic building
blocks for your Mac OS X product.
So it's great to see great
attendance in the room here.
I'd like to ask very quickly,
just do a little impromptu survey here.
How many of you are currently
using Apple Help in your product,
say on Mac OS 9 or something like that?
Okay.
How many of you are planning to
or hoping to use Apple Help for
your Mac OS X product?
All right, fantastic.
So that's really great.
So what we want to do in this session
is we're going to have a little feedback
attitude in the San Jose welcome room.
And we want to talk to you about how
easy it is to get Apple Help going
and then move into some details about
the APIs and all that sort of stuff.
And then we've also got some
really cool announcements.
So I'd like to welcome Gordon Meyer on
stage from our Instructional
Products Group at Apple.
And he'll walk you through
some of the basics here.
Thanks for coming.
It's good to see you all.
I've been looking forward
to this session all week.
So let's get right to it.
This is our agenda for today.
We're going to start out talking a
little bit about help philosophy,
the things you can do in your
help systems to make them good,
to make them really hit the mark.
Then we're going to move
into a discussion of the
help viewer at Apple Help.
We're going to look at
all of its features,
demonstrate them for you,
and then we'll examine some of
those features in detail so you can
see what they bring to your help
system and how to implement them.
Then we'll talk about authoring,
how to create an Apple Help book.
You'll see that you can take existing
HTML content and move it into
Apple Help in about five minutes.
It's very easy to implement.
But I know that all of you are
not coming from a system where you
already have HTML Help content.
You might have content in another format.
So we'll talk about converting
to Apple Help as well.
And as John mentioned, we have a special
announcement about that.
So if you currently work
in Quick Help or Win Help,
be sure and stick around because
there's a great new tool coming aboard.
After we talk about conversion,
we'll cover everything you need
to know from the programming side
to hook up to the help system.
The APIs, how to handle your help menu,
how to put help buttons in dialogs,
and so on.
And you'll be pleased that there, too,
using Apple Help is very simple.
Finally, we have time at the end for Q&A,
so if there's something that we
don't cover or you have questions,
please be sure and come up to the mic.
Because before you leave the room,
we want to make sure you have
everything you need to start
implementing Apple Help and get
your application shipping on 10.
I was really pleased by the
show of hands to see how many
of you are moving to the system.
We've had great adoption so far,
and I'm anticipating a lot more now.
One too many.
So let's begin with a little discussion
about the philosophy of help.
These are some ideas and principles
that you might find useful as
you create your help systems.
They're things that we try and
keep in mind as we create ours.
Well, starting at the 10,000 foot level,
what is it about help?
What role does help
play in an application?
Well,
it's one part of the documentation suite.
And what do I mean by
a documentation suite?
Well, I have a very broad view of that.
You see,
the documentation suite is everything
you include with your product that
helps users understand how to use it.
You might have a printed manual,
on-screen help certainly, a tutorial,
a read me, your website.
All of those things contribute to user
experience and to the user education.
But so does the UI of the application.
Help tags, error messages, dialogues,
and the UI itself communicates
to people how to use your app.
So that's a pretty broad
collection of things.
So let's focus on help.
I mean, every one of those has something
that it brings to the party
for helping users understand.
But since we're here to
talk about on-screen help,
let's look at that specifically.
So what is the role of help?
What does it provide that some
of those other things don't?
Well, for one thing,
it's a companion to the computer.
When you're using an
on-screen help system,
you know that your user has a computer in
front of them and has your application.
That isn't necessarily true for
those other things I mentioned.
Why do people use help?
Well, often it's a last resort for users.
Now, not everybody uses help this way,
but many do.
And in fact, I do myself.
I have a little story to illustrate this.
I think you'll find that
as you think about it,
this might be how you use help as well.
So this was a couple weeks ago,
and I just made a CD with iTunes.
I burned some of my
favorite songs on a CD,
and I wanted to make a CD label.
So I launched Illustrator,
and I drew a couple of circles,
figured out how big they needed to be,
typed my song titles in and so on.
And on the label,
I wanted a title for the CD,
but I wanted the title to
kind of curve around and match
the roundness of the label.
And I didn't know how to do that.
I'd never taken text and
set it on a curve before.
So how did I approach the task?
Well, I looked through all the menus,
and I tried out the various tools,
and tried to figure out how to do it.
I brought all my experience
to bear with Illustrator to
try and tackle this problem,
and I failed.
So my next step was to find
somebody else who might know.
I looked around me, among my colleagues,
and asked a few questions.
Hey, does anybody know how to do this?
And it turns out they didn't know either.
So at that point, I had two choices.
I could give up and decide, well,
who cares if the text is curved?
Or I could turn to the documentation,
turn to the help,
and try and find my answer,
which is what I did.
And I got in there,
and I found my answer.
And it was a springboard for me.
I was back working in Illustrator,
completing the label the way I wanted to.
And it was great.
It was a very good help experience.
and that's how many users come to help.
So what can you do to your help system
to optimize that kind of experience?
It's an important role.
There are a couple
principles you can follow.
How do you optimize your help system
for providing a great user experience?
Well, you should consider thinking
about a minimalist approach.
Now,
if you're an instructional design person,
you know that minimalism is this
entire school of thought and it
has a lot of principles and some
baggage associated with it as well.
But I'm not going to go into all of that.
There's really three principles
that I have from that school of
thought that I want to talk about.
And if you're not familiar with this,
don't think of minimalism as
meaning don't provide any help.
That's not what it means at all.
It sounds like it from the name, I know.
So what you want to do is you
want to focus on real-world tasks.
People come to the help
with a task in mind.
In my case, it was curving text.
I wasn't looking for help on
using the Fit to Path tool.
You want to emphasize troubleshooting.
Because people reach an impasse, right,
they've tried to figure it out,
they've asked for help, they couldn't,
they come to the help
with the documentation.
There's a problem.
They want to get on with their work.
So include troubleshooting
information in your help.
Now separate troubleshooting sections
are all fine and well and good,
but if you can include troubleshooting
information with your task instructions,
it's even better.
Because that's where people
are likely to find them and
likely to encounter the problem.
Another principle you can use is
acknowledging prior experience.
Now, I know all the authors out
there do audience analysis,
and they think about, you know,
who am I writing for?
Who's the person who's using this?
Well, apply that principle down
to the very task level.
Think about the topic you're describing,
the type of person who wants to do this.
For example,
Someone who's coming to the
help and looking for information
about making a font italic,
probably a novice user.
They need a certain level of instruction.
Someone who's coming to the help and
looking for information on kerning
pairs is probably an advanced user.
They bring a lot to the
table about font technology.
Acknowledge that as you
provide instructions.
We've all had the experience of turning
to a help system and finding the
information there either too basic or--
[Transcript missing]
Another high-level principle you can
use is to exploit the environment.
The on-screen help system is
on-screen and on the computer.
It's not a printed book.
You can do things in on-screen help that
you couldn't dream of doing in print,
such as providing automations and
using animated graphics and so on.
Likewise related to books,
it's kind of easy to find stuff in books.
We know how to do that.
You riffle through pages
and you flip through things.
On-screen help, you can't do that.
You need to think about the structure
and making things easy to find
so people can locate information.
It turns out that search is
a really good way to do that.
And we're going to talk about some of
the search technology we have built
into Apple Help to help you with that.
And finally, when you write your tasks,
write for following along.
Assume the user is following the
instructions you're giving them.
A book has to be very
narrative in its nature,
right?
Because the reader might be
on a train or on the beach,
might not have a computer with them.
And so when you look at a book,
it needs to provide task instructions
and kind of a narrative of what's
happening on screen as you're doing these
things to keep everything in context.
When you're on a computer,
the user has probably come with a problem
and is following your instructions along.
If the UI speaks to the user
and enforces conditions such as
clicking OK or making sure a value
has been specified and so on,
let the user interface do that.
Take advantage of those other pieces
of the documentation suite that are
available because you're on the computer.
Help tags, for example,
error messages and so on.
It's not necessary to be as narrative
in on-screen help as it is in a book.
So, yeah,
I know what some of you are thinking.
That's all well and good,
but I've already written a help system,
right?
That's fine.
There's still something you
can do to make sure your help
really hits the mark on Mac OS X.
And to do that,
you just need to provide a consistent
help experience and adopt Apple Help.
As John mentioned,
it is the help system for the platform.
We've worked hard to make sure the
help system is optimized for delivering
on-screen information like this.
We've built in some special features
that you're going to hear about today.
So that's one thing you can do to
join the platform and make sure that
the user has a consistent experience.
You know,
John mentioned in his talk yesterday at
the Adopting Aqua guideline-- Adopting
Aqua session that using custom controls
that don't go with the rest of the
UI can be confusing for people because
they come to your app and they're like,
oh, well, gee, what are these?
Well, a similar situation
happens with the help.
If you roll your own help solution
and don't use the help viewer,
when your customer comes
and looks up the help,
they're coming with a task in mind.
But they open the help system and
they see what you've created and
then immediately their task becomes
figuring that out instead of getting
the answer to their question.
So I've talked about the features of
Apple Help and how we try to optimize
it for the on-screen environment.
Let's take a look at it in action.
This is Jess.
Jessica is the tech lead for
Apple Help and she's going
to drive the demo for me.
That way I don't have to point, click,
talk and pace back and
forth all at the same time.
So let's start with the Help Viewer.
This is kind of the core of Apple Help.
It's an HTML display application.
You see it here on screen.
There's a little opening animation we've
included in Mac Help to welcome the user,
invite them to type in a question.
And that's actually a Flash movie
playing in the Help right there.
Let's talk about the UI for a second.
You see across the bottom we have some
navigation controls and a status area.
Across the top we have a very
simple interface for searching.
We have a large text field and a
nice pulsing Ask button because we
want to encourage people to search.
So we've typed in a search string.
Why don't we go ahead and
click Ask and see what we get.
So that fast,
the Help Viewer has searched through
all of the content in Mac Help,
some 300 pages or so, and has presented a
relevancy-ranked list of results.
Those are topics that are most
relevant to what Jess typed in.
Let's take a look at one of them.
So this is, again,
as a standard HTML page.
You see the topic of the page.
The yellow area there in the
middle actually indicates actions.
We're doing that in Mac Help.
Kind of echoes back to the
color of help tags that you
see throughout the interface.
At the bottom,
you see a couple of hypertext links.
You can tell because
they're blue underlined.
But these are examples of something
else we've built into the help,
which is special handling
for certain types of links.
And that one says
Open System Preferences for Me.
Why don't we click that?
You'll see what happens is that
System Preferences comes to the front.
We've actually launched
that from the help system.
Behind the scenes there's an Apple script
that's running from that href.
So when the user clicks it,
we run the script and tell
System Preferences to come forward.
This is a very simple
example of automation,
which we'll talk more
about in a few minutes.
The other link, Tell Me More,
does a pre-program search in the Help.
You'll notice up at the top there,
there's been a new search term entered.
This is a way of gathering
related topics without having
the hard link to other pages.
And again,
we've searched all of the Help and
presented the most relevant topics.
Let's look at the Help Center.
So the Help Center here
is unique as well.
This represents all of the help
books that are available on
the system for the user to use.
You can see Mac Help, iTunes Help,
and one that I can't read.
Why don't we take a look
at that second one there.
So it turns out that this is
Japanese input method help.
And of course, as a Mac OS 1080 program,
the help viewer is completely
international and can display
whatever you need it to display.
So also installed on this
machine is QuickTime.
Let's take a look at that.
So QuickTime help is rather unique.
Now this page looks a lot like Mac help
and this page is stored on the hard disk.
But the rest of QuickTime help
is on the Internet.
It comes from servers at Apple.
And the help viewer has a very special
feature built in and it's able to
find a page even if it exists on the
Internet instead of the local hard drive.
So let's click a topic here and
again this is going to do a search
to come up with some related ones.
We'll go into one of these.
and that page you're looking at
just came from Apple's servers.
See, we're able to do the search
locally without connecting
to the internet because our
search index is stored locally.
But this page came from the help servers.
Now, of course,
it happened really fast because
we have a good network connection.
If we had a slower connection,
you'd see a little status message
and a progress bar appear at the
bottom of the help viewer window.
So this allows us to continue to update
the help after the product is shipped
and make sure it's good content.
Also here is another link at the bottom.
This one is go to a website.
When we click that,
we just pass it off to the
web browser and load the URL.
The help viewer,
when it encounters a hyperlink
that it doesn't process internally
or does not refer to a help file,
it passes it through the system
to the appropriate handler.
Let's talk some more about searching.
Let's look for something
about sound here.
Sound volume, that's a good choice.
So again, we've searched the content.
You can see all the stuff from
QuickTime that's available.
We didn't connect to
the internet for that.
But at the bottom of the page,
you see there's a link
that says Search All Help.
When we do that,
the Help viewer searches all of the
available help books on the system:
Mac Help, iTunes, QuickTime, and so on.
It's presenting the most relevant
topics from all of those books.
When you adopt Apple Help,
your book will be listed in the
Help Center as well and will be
searched exactly the same way.
That's it.
Thanks.
We'll see you in a few minutes, Jeff.
So we've talked about how help can be
a benefit to users in providing a good,
consistent user instruction
experience on Mac OS X.
But what are the benefits for
you as authors and developers?
Well, it's very easy to author.
Apple's embracing open
standards everywhere,
as you're hearing
throughout this conference.
And Help is another example.
We use standard HTML.
You can author Apple Help with any
HTML authoring tool you choose.
Anything from a Go Live or
a Dreamweaver to BBEdit to
Stickies to whatever you choose.
Something on another platform.
Whatever you use to author HTML today,
you can continue to use with Apple Help.
It's also very easy to implement.
These features we just
saw in the Help Viewer,
the internet connection, the searching,
all of that is provided
by the Help Viewer.
There isn't anything special that
you have to do as an author to
enable those or make those work.
And most importantly,
it's one help solution for Mac OS X.
Carbon, Cocoa, it doesn't matter.
You can adopt it and deploy
it with your application.
So let's look at the
specs for the system.
It renders HTML 3.2.
That's without JavaScript or forms.
Natively plays QuickTime movies.
You saw an example of a
Flash movie playing in there.
But you can use any
QuickTime media you want to.
QuickTime supports over 200
different media formats-- JPEG,
GIF.
Flash, MP3, you name it,
basically QuickTime can play it and
you can use it in your help system.
And again,
by saying we play QuickTime natively,
I mean we do not use
the QuickTime plugin.
We use the Sherlock Engine for searching.
That's how we get our fast
searching and our relevancy ranking.
You can launch AppleScript from
a simple hyperlink.
We'll get into the syntax of that later.
And you can retrieve
content from the internet.
The Help Center that you saw displays all
the books that's available for the user.
This is based on permissions.
If the user does not have permission
to launch your application,
your help does not show
up in the Help Center.
That way users are insured of seeing
reference material only for applications
that they're actually able to use.
And if you're familiar with
Apple Help from Mac OS 9 and Mac OS 8.5,
where it started,
you'll be pleased to know that
you no longer have to store your
help in one single location.
It works seamlessly with help stored
on the network or on the hard disk and,
of course, on the internet.
So I'd like to talk a little bit
more about this internet-based
content because it's a very
important feature of the Help Viewer,
and it doesn't work like
it does in a web browser.
You might think it does,
but it behaves differently,
and let's look at it.
So the help viewer prefers local content.
It always looks locally first.
And by locally,
I mean in your help folder with
the rest of your materials.
If it can't find it there,
if that file is missing,
then it will look in a cache folder.
Every user has a help cache and
the help cache contains files
that were recently downloaded.
If it doesn't find them
in the user's help cache,
then it goes to your site and
retrieves the page using HTTP.
Now you tell us where you're going
to put this content on the Internet.
You give us the URL to
pre-append to the location there
when you index your content.
and once we do download a file,
it's cached locally for three days.
That way users can come back and
look at it again without having
to reconnect to the Internet,
but it doesn't stick along so, you know,
stay around so long that it's stale
and in the meantime you may have
updated what's on the Internet.
I have a little illustration
here to demonstrate this.
So the simplest scenario,
a page is requested,
it looks on the disk and it finds it,
and so the help viewer opens the page.
If it does not find it
in your help folder,
it looks in the cache,
and if it finds it there,
it opens it from the cache.
If it does not find it in the cache,
it uses HTTP to go to your remote site,
and it takes the page, downloads it,
and puts it in the cache,
and loads it from there.
Now I keep saying page.
That's not quite right,
because this happens for every
element that's on the page.
If you have graphics,
the same process is repeated.
It will look locally,
it will look in the cache,
it will look on the Internet and
retrieve it if necessary.
That way you can have a mix of
local graphics with remote pages,
or local pages with remote graphics,
or all one or the other.
It's very flexible in that regard.
And as an author,
you don't have to decide or even know
where those pieces are going to reside.
You make that choice at the very last
minute when you ship your product.
And that's one of the
key advantages of this.
And you guys know what
development cycles are,
right?
Your application engineers
are creating their apps,
coding madly,
and your help team or your help
person is following shortly behind,
lagging, trying to catch up.
At some point, the help has to freeze.
You have to ship the product.
It goes off, it's done,
but development can continue,
and often does continue after that point.
Bugs will be fixed or introduced.
Features will change and so on.
And that makes the help wrong.
And having a help that's incomplete
or incorrect isn't good for anyone.
So, when you get to that point
where you need to freeze,
you can take a snapshot and say,
"What features of this
product are likely to change?"
take the topics that cover those
features and put them on the internet.
That allows you to be able to
maintain them after the product
is released or at least catch
up right before it's released.
And as an author,
you don't have to decide up until that
very moment because the help viewer,
as we've seen, looks in these places
and finds the content.
It's like a hunting dog.
It'll sniff it out and find
it in any of these locations.
You don't need to make sure that all
of your hrefs are pointing to specific
folder names or specific sites.
It handles figuring that out for you.
So how do you author Apple Help?
Well, it's really easy.
You start with HTML.
Again, HTML
You take your start page,
the main page for your help book.
That might be your table of contents,
your quick clicks page
as we saw in our demo.
Whatever page you consider to
be main for your help book.
And you modify it.
You add one line.
You add a meta tag.
A meta tag is a standard HTML element.
Put a meta tag of the type Apple title
and the name of your help book.
In this example, myapp.help.
Add that to your one page.
This is a standard element so other
systems are going to ignore it.
You can continue to deploy this
information on other systems.
systems, no problem.
And that's it.
That's the only modification
you have to make.
You take your entire help folder
and you drag and drop it on top
of the Apple Help indexing tool.
The indexing tool scans all of
your content and creates a search
index and puts it in the correct
place in the folder for you.
So you want to do this at the end, right?
Because you want your
help to be up to date.
You want that search index to
represent the latest content
that you have in there.
When you index your content,
this is also where you specify where
that remote site's going to be if
you're using Internet-based content.
And this is also where you
turn on anchor indexing.
Now, we haven't talked about anchors yet,
but we will in a moment.
Just keep in mind that it's at index
time when you turn this feature on or
off to decide you're going to use it.
So you've created your help,
where do you put it?
Well, on Mac OS X,
help resides inside your
applications bundle.
All the localized help can live there,
just like all the other localized
resources with Mac OS X.
And this provides a nice drag-and-drop
install of your application
and all of its help files.
How do people get to your help?
Well, three ways primarily.
The first method of access,
and the one you should
definitely implement,
is a help menu.
At a help menu,
we recommend a single item in there.
In this case,
it's Mail Help in this slide.
It should obviously be
your application's name,
Help, with a command question mark
as the keyboard shortcut.
So why do we recommend one item?
Well, you know, in user tests,
it's interesting.
We've
I've sat through many
user tests at Apple,
and we find that when people have a long,
complicated help menu,
especially when those items in the menu
kind of all lead to the same place,
right?
They all open the help
system and they go somewhere.
I know as authors, it's painful to admit,
but to a lot of people,
it's all kind of the same.
If there's four items in the help menu,
we'll often see people pick the
wrong item five times in a row.
Yeah, you stand back there
behind the glass and say,
no, how can you be doing this?
But it's true.
A nice, simple menu works great.
And when people have questions,
they just want to get to where
they're going to get their answers.
You can also implement a Help button,
which is the second graphic there.
This is a great way to
provide contextual help.
And from the contextual menu as well,
you can add a help item there.
If you're going to do provide
contextual help with a
Help button or a contextual menu,
you normally want to
use an anchor to do so,
and we'll talk about that.
So essentially,
we've covered everything you need
to do from the authoring side
to get your help up and running.
But what else can you do?
If you have some extra time or you
want to go that little extra step to
provide a really good help experience,
there are a few things you
can do and take advantage of
some of our advanced features.
and I are here today to talk about how to
provide on-screen help for Mac OS users.
In this session,
we will talk about how to provide
on-screen help for Mac OS users.
We set up some user studies.
Earlier in the study,
we had someone do a task and they had to
come to the help for information on it.
We provided an automation that would
actually do that task for them.
and 95%, maybe 99%, I think it
was one person out of the group,
chose to do the automation.
Rather than doing the task themselves,
they clicked, yeah, do it for me.
I mean, come on,
that's what computers are supposed to do,
right?
Do things for me.
Well, later in the same study,
we had another task,
and in order to successfully
complete that task,
they had to undo what this
automation had done for them earlier.
We wanted to see if people were
going to become reliant upon that
automation and go back to it or
be stumped when confronted with
having how do I undo this thing.
And it turns out that nobody
had any problems with that.
Using the automation did not
impede their ability to learn
how to work with the system.
And in talking with them after the study,
they loved it.
They wanted more of that type of thing.
So this is a great opportunity
to make your help stand out.
You can also improve search results.
We talked earlier about how it
can be difficult to find things
in an on-screen help system.
One of the best ways to
find things is by searching.
Come to help with a
representation of your task,
type in your question,
and get a related list of topics.
Now, to make that work,
it's up to you as an author to provide
keywords that are going to relate your
tasks to real-world representations.
You can use the keyword
meta tag for that.
You can also use keywords to
provide synonyms and misspellings.
For example,
we spell QuickTime a couple of
ways in our help content usually to
make sure that people can find it.
Because believe it or not,
people do want to spell it as two words,
unusually.
You can also use the robots meta tag.
This is a standard tag if you run a
website and you're familiar with it.
But this provides you with a way to
omit a page from a search result.
So that page will not come up
when somebody searches for a term.
So why would you want to do that?
Well, if you have a table of contents
page or a Quick Clicks page,
all of the words on that page
are going to get indexed.
And when a user types in those words,
they'll see that as a result.
And if they go to it,
it doesn't really help them, right?
It's just the table of contents.
It's kind of being a tease.
So you use robots to omit
that page from searching.
And that way, when people search,
they get the pages with
the real content on them.
Apple Abstract is another
meta tag that we support.
Add this to your content
with the contents of this tag
being a summary of the page.
When that page is found by a search,
that summary will appear
underneath the topic title.
This lets users get an idea
of what's on that page,
a little short paragraph
describing what they're going
to learn if they click on that.
It makes search results a little bit
more usable because they can decide.
And if your content is on the Internet,
it's even better because then they can
decide and make a more educated choice
when they go to download that page.
Anchor Lookup.
An anchor is a standard HTML element.
It's not visible to the user.
It's contained in the HTML code.
It's usually a short little phrase
or a name such as printing 001.
Anchors are how you provide access
to specific pages of the help.
As an author,
you add this anchor to your page.
You turn on anchor indexing
when you index your content.
And then your application can display a
page in the help simply by telling the
help viewer to open this anchor name.
The application doesn't
know what page it's on.
It doesn't have to know what folder
it's in or any of its location.
It just says, "Hey, help viewer,
show me the page with printing
001 on it," and it'll happen.
Remote content,
we've talked about this a little bit.
This is a great way to help
users and a great way to
keep your content up to date,
as I've said.
If you're gonna implement it,
here's a couple things to keep in mind.
You want to optimize your
pages for downloading.
Now, a lot of help is text,
and so they're small and
they come down quickly.
But if you're using graphics,
consider putting the graphics local
so they don't have to be downloaded.
Again,
the Help Viewer will manage that for you.
Or use QuickTime Reference Movies.
And of course, in QuickTime,
movies is what they
call their file format.
It can be a JPEG or a GIF.
It doesn't have to be an animation.
But a reference movie is very small,
just a couple of K.
The Help Viewer will download that.
And because it has the graphic
that's referred to in the HTML,
will display the entire page
right away very quickly.
Then QuickTime will see
that it's a reference movie.
And QuickTime will go out on the
network and download the graphic
that actually appears there.
Just a little tip for you.
We've talked about searching.
If you're going to use remote content,
it's even more important to optimize
for searching because you don't want
people to hit the Internet too often.
Try and limit the topics per page and
make your topic titles very accurate.
What I mean by that,
if you have a very long page with several
topics on it and you do a search for it,
only the title for that page
shows up in the search results.
If that title of the page doesn't
reflect the rest of the information,
they might not get that that's
the page they should look at.
So breaking that up into smaller
chunks helps people find stuff,
and it goes to optimizing
for downloading as well.
These are some help
commands you can download,
excuse me, you can implement.
I'm not going to talk about the HTML.
I won't read it to you.
That would be very painful for all of us.
But these help commands are a special
type of URL you can use in your content.
You notice they all
start with help colon,
which is a special handler we've
defined for the help viewer.
And by using these commands,
you can cause the help
viewer to do things.
You can tell it to go to the help center.
You can switch to another book.
For example,
if you want to take somebody to Mac Help,
you can include a link in your content
that says open Mac Help for me.
When they click that,
the help viewer will go find Mac Help.
You can open to an anchor in a book.
So if you want to refer to a
specific page either within
your own book or someone else's,
you can refer to it by anchor
without having to know its file
name or location on the disk.
A couple more.
You can perform a search.
You saw this in the demo.
Tell me more,
our quick clicks that were in the demo.
Those all perform a search
within the help viewer.
You can specify what book to
search as well as the search term.
and of course you can
run an Apple script.
Here's the syntax for that.
It's a help:run script and you give
the path to the Apple script that's
included with your help content.
You can also pass a parameter
to that Apple script.
So you can generalize your
scripts and pass parameters to
have them do specific things.
So we've covered what you can do if
you're starting with a new help system,
how to create a help system very
quickly and get it into Mac OS X,
how to take an existing HTML book,
and Convertit to Mac OS X.
But what if you're not
starting with HTML?
I know that many of you are coming from
WinHelp or QuickHelp have existing help
systems you want to get into this system.
Well, if you're coming from Apple Guide,
there is a utility from
our friends at GuideWorks.
They're no longer with us,
but before the company folded,
they did make this utility
available for all of us to use.
Take your Apple Guide source,
run it through this utility and
it will just give you a very basic
starting HTML framework for it.
You can leverage some of
the work you've done there.
It doesn't cover everything,
but it'll get you started.
If you're coming from
WinHelp or QuickHelp,
well,
we have some really good news for you.
As to the announcement
we alluded to earlier,
and to talk about that,
I'm going to ask John to
come back up on stage.
And thank you for your attention.
So I'm going to be brief because I want
to introduce somebody very quickly.
But one of the things I want to
say is that developer relations
is one of our mandates is to make
you successful on the platform.
And one of the ways we want to do that
is to eliminate some of the barriers that
it takes to get your products onto the
Macintosh because a lot of people are
bringing products from other platforms.
And the last thing we want to do
is for you to have hurdles that you
have to cross that are unique to
Macintosh that aren't available,
say, on another platform or don't
exist on another platform.
And one of those barriers currently
was a lot of people are coming from
Windows to Mac OS X and they have content
on Windows in WinHelp format and they
needed to get that over to Apple Help.
And so I want to introduce somebody
that we've begun to work with,
Jack Minsky from Software Mac Kiev.
and to talk about a tool that
they've come up with working
with us at Developer Relations.
So Jack.
JACK MAHER: Thank you, John.
So my name is Jack Minsky.
I'm the president of Software McKiev.
We are the world's largest conversion
house moving stuff from Windows to Mac.
Some of the titles you may
have heard of that we moved,
the World Book Multimedia Encyclopedia
that we did for World Book IBM,
Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing.
We did SimCity 3000, KidPix Deluxe,
SPS S10, and a couple of hundred others.
More recently,
we've been moving things to Mac OS X,
and we've also done some
WebObjects projects,
basically any Apple technologies
that need to be implemented.
As we were moving projects to Mac OS X,
we discovered one of the things that
shouldn't have been a long lead time
item but turned out to be was moving
things from something we use extensively
called QuickHelp from Altura Software,
which allowed us in doing these
conversions to take basically
the Windows Help file and move
it over to run on the Mac.
very nicely.
The problem with Quick Help is it
doesn't have a Mac OS X version
and probably isn't going to.
And that meant launching
Quick Help in the classic box,
and that was something
we didn't want to do.
So we started painfully trying to take
this RTF-based Windows help and move
it over to an HTML base for Apple help.
And finding that took us two to
three months per project and over
the number of projects we were doing,
that didn't make a lot of sense.
So we set out to make a tool for
ourselves in-house to be able to do that
process on a rapid basis to automate it.
And that tool is called Quicker Help.
We've made it into our first product
that we're actually going to ship,
one of our own tools.
We've created lots of in-house tools.
This is the first one through
cooperation with Apple we've
decided to make available in
general to the developer community.
It shortens the time literally
from months to move your help
over to a couple of days.
The utility itself,
I'm going to show you right now,
takes a couple of minutes to run,
but then you still need to
do some converting by hand.
If you're starting from
Win Help or Robo Help,
you'd need to change all of the
right mouse clicks to control
clicks and those kind of things.
It still has to be done by hand.
Of course,
you'd have to replace screenshots.
The basics of getting it from RTF Help,
dividing it into those small chunks for
HTML Help is all done automatically.
What it does is it takes RTF Help,
moves it to HTML Help, and again,
Win Help and Quick Help files.
I'd like to show it to you.
[Transcript missing]
Quicker Help.
Sorry.
I like to see the bouncing shoe go.
So I always want to put the dock up.
OK, so the first thing we need to
do is specify a project file.
And we can do that either by using
the Select button to find one,
or of course, because this is Mac,
we can use drag and drop.
And I've identified here
what's called an HPJ file.
Those of you who've made
Quick Help before know this is the
basic index file for the product.
[Transcript missing]
and then that appears in my chooser here.
And anytime I want to go back and
retain that exact set of settings,
whether it's the mapping of the fonts
or the titles or whatever you've set up,
you can have that exact one for help.
So we say OK,
and we saved our preferences.
And that's it.
And we're ready to convert.
Now let's give it a spin.
I'm going to choose a place
for the destination folder.
I'm going to put it on the desktop so
we can see it and create a new folder.
And I'm going to call
that one Jack's Help.
create that on the desktop,
and it starts converting.
This process is gonna take
about another minute and a half,
so give me a chance to tell you
about a few of the other features.
We did show this at the expo.
Those of you who came by and
helped by giving your comments,
thank you for that.
One of the things that was requested
that we've decided to add to the
product is the ability to print out
all the pages of help that you make
instead of having to print them one
at a time from the Apple Help Viewer.
So that's an option that
you'll be able to check a box
in the preferences as well.
That's helpful if you're doing
your own editing or you wanna
give it to your QA group to try
and check through the help and
make sure that everything's okay.
So here it goes doing the processing,
and you can see going from RTF files,
both text and graphics being created.
And at the end of the process,
we'll be given a choice to,
with two options.
We can open up the folder
that contains this help,
so that you can go in
and take a look at it,
maybe start to do some
editing right away.
Or we can open up the final result,
just take a look at it in Apple Help.
I'm not going to open up
the destination folder.
We'll open Apple Help.
And there it goes.
We've got the help viewer jumping
up and down here on the bottom.
And there's the result,
all converted from an
RTF file into Apple Help.
And just to show you this is real,
I have here in Quick Help the
original file of this.
You can see,
for those of you who remember
what Quick Help looks like,
well,
this is the opening Quick Help page.
This is the opening Apple Help page.
So you have a difference
in environment there.
We'll just drill down through a couple
of these here so you can see that
we've got essentially the same content.
So these are exactly the same,
or at least the same content.
There you go.
And that's what it does.
Simple as that.
This is an almost final version because
of a few things we wanted to add.
And so we believe we'll have this all
tied up and available even next week.
We're going to be announcing
distribution for this.
Certainly it's going to be available for
download from our website and I'll give
you that contact information in a minute.
And pricing is $5.95 for the SDK,
the same price for those of you who have
used Altura Quick Help as their SDK.
The difference being you don't
have any kind of fees to pay for
distribution of the Quick Help viewer.
Apple Help is free.
And if you'd like more information,
please contact us.
Write to me, jack@mckeeve.com.
Write that down.
Or www.mckeeve.com on the web.
We will be announcing some
additional distribution next week.
And we are going to stay
at the end of the session.
If you have any questions,
please feel free and come up and
chat with me and our engineers
and be to answer whatever we can.
Thank you.
So that's just an example of some
of the tools that we're hoping to
bring to the platform to help you
move your help content across and
even other stuff in other domains
and other technologies on Mac OS X.
If you have some specific tools that
you're using that you think you'd
love to have Apple produce or work
with third-party developers to produce
the conversion process or whatever,
please contact me at
the end of the session.
My contact info will be up on the slide.
To continue with some of the lower-level
stuff relative to Apple Help,
I'd like to invite Jessica Kahn on stage.
She's the tech lead for
Apple Help at Apple,
and she's going to walk you through
some of the APIs on this stuff.
- Hi everybody,
thanks for coming to the session.
Well,
so far you've heard from Gordon and from
Jack about what good on-screen help is,
what the help viewer does
to display it to the user,
and how to create a help book.
What I'm going to talk to you
about is the help menu on Mac OS X,
listing your book in the help center,
which is that main table of
contents in the help viewer,
and accessing help from your
application using menus,
buttons, or contextual menus.
And then we'll bring up John for Q&A.
So Gordon mentioned before
that the basic help menu on
Mac OS X is what we recommend that
you use and it's a single item,
your application's name followed
by the word help with the question
mark key as the keyboard shortcut.
How do you get the basic
help menu on Mac OS X?
It's actually really easy.
Some of you may remember from
Mac OS 9 and before that you
need to create an Apple Guide and
that can be a little tricky.
This, I think, is actually a lot easier.
Basically what you do is,
as Gordon mentioned,
you bundle your application
with its help content.
You define a couple of
keys in your Info.plist,
or for those of you who are familiar
with localizing your application,
those can be defined in the
Info.plist.strings file as well
in case you want to ship multiple
languages of your help book.
And then you define a couple of standard
keys that you should be defining
anyway if you're bundling your app,
the bundle identifier
and the bundle name.
I'll go into a little more detail
about our special keys now.
So that CFBundle help book
folder key is basically,
as you can see from
the graphic hopefully,
specifying the folder in which
your help content is stored.
That red circle is a little off,
I'm not sure why,
but it wasn't on my computer.
Anyway, that's the help folder
down in your app package.
And this graphic displays
your app once it's been built.
That's where,
if you had a global help book folder,
it would be.
and the CFBundle help book
name key is basically exactly
the same as your Apple title.
And so that's the key that's
more likely to be localized,
right?
Because if you're shipping, say,
a French language version
of your help book,
that title would probably be in French.
And so that's the Info.plist key that
you might define in your strings file
rather than your main Info.plist.
Here's an example of the Info.plist.
Basically, this just shows the four keys
that you absolutely need to
define for your help content to
show up in the basic help menu.
The CFBundle helpbook folder,
as you can see, is a string value,
my app help folder.
The CFBundle helpbook name folder
is--helpbook name key rather is also
a string and that's your Apple title.
Your bundle identifier is usually
something that uniquely identifies
your application to the system,
something like
com.yourcompanyname.yourappname.
And your CFBundle name is sort of the
user visible name of your application.
Okay, so let's step back for a moment.
If you define those
four keys in your plist,
and you put your help folder
down in your app bundle,
and you launch your app,
you're gonna get the basic help menu.
And as much as we stress that
the basic help menu is the
easiest thing for users to use,
we also understand that we need
to be flexible for you guys,
and that some of you are gonna
want to have multiple help menu
items doing different things.
So an example of a custom
help menu is bbeditshelp,
and guess what,
you can do it using Apple Help 2.
Here's what you need to do.
Basically, you need to define an array
value instead of a string value
for that help book folder key,
and that is a little clue
to the system to say,
hands off, don't touch my help menu.
That means we're not creating
a help menu for you at all.
You need to use whatever standard menu
managing APIs you use for Cocoa or
Carbon to create your help menu,
to add items,
and then to handle those items.
And you can use some of the
Apple Help APIs that I'll be talking
about shortly to handle those items.
So just again to stress
how you would do this,
you just, the change for the plist is
just that you set an array value
for CFBundle helpbook folder.
And you can put your single
string inside that array.
Or if you want to ship
multiple helpbooks,
we allow that too.
And so you would create an array and
list your multiple helpbooks in there.
Right, so we've discussed how to
have a basic help menu.
We've discussed how to
have a custom help menu.
That's half the picture for
accessing help from your application.
You also need to make sure
that your help is registered
to appear in the Help Center.
Without doing this,
you're not going to be able to search.
You're not going to be able
to get to your remote content.
You can't execute those Apple scripts
that Gordon talked about and a
number of other custom help features.
How do you do this?
Well, it's pretty easy.
You just call one API.
We recommend that you call it each
time your app launches because if
the registration is already current,
it's basically a no-op.
You're not gonna spend a
lot of time in that code.
It takes an FS ref to the bundle
of probably your application,
but it could be any bundle in
the system that contains help
down inside of its resources.
It registers all books contained
in that bundle as denoted by those
special help list keys that we
discussed for your info P list.
And the good news is Cocoa Apps with
just one help book get this for free.
And so, as I'll demonstrate later,
if you're a simple Cocoa application,
you don't really have to do any
work aside from storing your help
content and setting your P list keys
to have a basic help menu just work.
The caveats for this are that you
should keep your Apple titles,
those are the titles as they
appear in the Help Center,
as unique as possible
to avoid user confusion.
It's going to be a little bizarre for
a user if they end up launching the
Help Viewer and they see the main list
of table of contents and there are
things in there that are the same.
They're not going to know where to go.
Also, the user needs to have launched
your application once for your help
to appear in the Help Center list.
At first,
I can tell that some of you might
want to gasp at this limitation,
but it's not as bad as it seems.
Because the likelihood of the
user wanting to get to Help Viewer
application before they've ever
even launched it is pretty slim.
Okay, at this point,
I'm gonna do a demo for you to
show you that it really is that
easy to have a basic help menu.
Get rid of the stuff and
launch Project Builder.
and PeeBee.
Okay, so first I'm gonna show you,
the nuances of making a basic
help menu for a Carbon application
and a Cocoa application are
just slightly different,
so I'm gonna show you each just to prove
to you that it's simple for both of them.
So let's create a new
project in Project Builder.
And let's make a Carbon application.
What are we going to call it?
We're going to call it Carbon Demo.
And then let's set its location.
We're gonna put that
down in my demo stuff,
and I've already made a little folder
in here that contains a help book.
And so let's just choose
that location and say finish.
and I are going to be talking
about the project builder.
The project builder is pretty
nifty because it gives you
a lot of stuff for free too.
Basically at this point,
if I just hit the build key,
the build button,
I've got a bare bones Carbon app
that's already going to run for me.
So all I need to do to add my
help to this is to click on the
resources area of the project,
go to the project menu
and add my help files.
which are stored in this folder.
As you can see,
this looks like a basic help book.
So let's say we want to have
this whole folder added.
So let's highlight it and click Open.
and then here you want
to be very careful,
take note of this.
Because we want to add the whole folder
to the resources section of the project,
we want to create a folder
reference for the added folder.
If we didn't do that,
we'd end up adding separate files
and that's not what we want.
We want to think of the help
book as a single resource,
a single entity that gets copied around.
So there it is.
Now inside there,
I've got one HTML file that's, wow,
that's a big font.
One HTML file that's my
main file for the book,
and in here I've defined the Apple title,
as Gordon suggested you need to do.
So keep in mind, this is gonna be one
of my plist key values.
The other one is the actual folder
itself that I've added to my app bundle.
So let's go set those key list P's.
Rather, P list keys.
Click on the Carbon Demo target,
and you want to edit
some target settings.
So you go in here to
Application Settings,
and first, you make sure that you
have a bundle identifier.
So let's name this com.apple.CarbonDemo.
This doesn't really matter what our
type and signature and stuff is.
That can all be left at the
default for this purpose.
Past that,
we actually want to click into the
expert mode to add our new keys.
So this is just a different view of
the same stuff that you saw before.
And we're just going to add a new
sort of top-level key here and
call it CFBundleHelpBookFolder.
Because we want the
basic help menu for free,
we're going to leave
that as a string value.
Whoops.
And then it's going to move it for
us so that it's hard to click in.
And we're going to name
that the folder name,
which I'll go back and show
you in a moment because I can't
look at that view right now.
But the folder name, I believe,
was CarbonDemoHelp.
and past that we want to add
one more sibling and that's
the CFBundle Help Book name.
That's your Apple title, remember.
And for this example,
I happen to make it the same name,
but it doesn't have to be.
So we've added those things,
and at this point,
I think all we need to do is add a little
snippet of code to our main source file.
Now,
this is only necessary for Carbon Apps,
but don't be upset, it's not that bad.
It's pretty simple, actually.
so that you don't have to watch
me struggle through writing
code while I'm talking up here,
I pre-prepared a little code snippet
that we can plunk into there.
I'll try to show you this source in a
way that you can see it in a moment as
soon as I copy it into the main file.
So we're just replacing that
initialize with a snippet that
also contains that initialize call.
Okay, so let's expand this so that you
guys can see that it's not that
big a deal to register your book.
So basically, to register your help book,
which is to get it into the Help Center,
you get your main bundle,
your app bundle,
and then once you've got that,
you get the bundles
URL using CFBundle calls.
Using that, you can get the FSRef and
then you pass the FSRef to the
AH register help book call.
Again, this is what puts your help book
in the help center and this is
what Cocoa Apps get for free
that Carbon Apps need to do,
but as you can see, it's only what,
12 lines of code or so.
It's not that bad.
All right,
I think if the demagogues are with me,
we're ready to build and run.
Let's make sure that Help Viewer
isn't already running,
because that would screw us up.
It appears to not be running,
which is good.
So let's execute our little Carbon app.
So here it comes.
Now, it's got a help menu.
And I promise you,
there's no code in there to have
started that help menu for you,
to have given that to you.
That's actually the high-level
toolbox providing a free help menu.
And it names it for you.
And if we choose it,
you'll see that it handles
it for you as well.
and there we go, we're in my little help
book that I created.
So, you know,
you spend a little time making
a help book and then you spend,
what was that,
maybe five or ten minutes adding it
to your project and you have a working
help system in Apple Help on Mac OS X.
So now just to show you the
nuances that are slightly
different between Carbon and Cocoa,
I'll do one more quickie to show you that
the Cocoa app is actually even easier.
So let's do a new project again.
And this time,
let's have it be a Cocoa application.
Let's call it creatively, Cocoa Demo,
and set its location similarly to
the pre-prepared folder that I have.
Let's finish creating that.
Alright, so, similarly,
we're just gonna open up this resources
section and add our help book.
Cocoa Demo Help.
make sure that that folder reference
is chosen and then click Add.
And then let's edit the target to
define those keys that we need.
So, again, we need to make sure we
have a bundle identifier.
and then we zip into expert mode and
create our little custom help keys.
Whoops, that always surprises me.
So, CFBundle Help Book Folder
with Cocoa Demo Help,
and then just to keep it simple,
our Apple title or the
book name was the same.
So we've defined our keys,
and now I think at this
point we're ready to build.
Oh, actually,
let's just double check one thing.
I think, just to be really a little
bit anal about this,
let's make sure that our help
menu is going to look right.
This is the nuance for Cocoa.
A basic Cocoa nib in the version
of 10 that's shipping now
already has a help menu in it,
but you just want to go rename it.
So let's just call that
Cocoa Demo Help and save that.
And now let's build our app.
and run our app.
Here we go.
We've got the help menu, Cocoa Demo Help.
And without adding any code,
you're going to see that Help Viewer is
going to launch and display your help.
So it's as simple as that.
and I'm glad the demo
gods were smiling upon me,
but I'm also glad to be back
here talking to the slides again.
Okay,
so just to review what we've covered.
We've talked about how
you can get a help menu.
We've talked about how you can get
your book listed in the help center.
Those are the two key things you
need to do to just have your basic
help system working in Mac OS X.
Now, I'll briefly just cover
the Apple Help APIs,
which are how you can hook up
buttons and contextual menus.
You can use these to access help
content from all over your application.
They're stored in the help framework,
which is part of the
Carbon Umbrella framework,
but because they're a C API,
they're usable by Cocoa Apps as well.
They're available in CarbonLib 1.1
and later for CarbonLib applications.
There are five of them.
We already talked about the first one.
Two more go into a category of opening
help viewer to a particular location,
and two others are to
perform lookups and searches.
I have some sample code here.
It might be a little hard to see,
but I hope not.
The gist of the code is that
this stuff is really easy.
As you can see,
all of those are one-liners.
The first one is using ahgo2pages to
open the help viewer to the help center.
The second is opening to
the developer help center,
which is a special category of developer
help content that we display in Mac OS X.
The third is using ahgo2pages,
supplying the Apple title for your
book and then not supplying the
other optional parameters to take
your book--to take your application,
rather, open help viewer and go to the
main page of your app's help.
You can also use this with
some optional parameters to get
within your help book somewhere.
Finally, you can use that API to get to
any HTML or text file on disk,
even if it's not inside of a help book.
You can also do lookups and searches.
I'll briefly cover actually
the last two on these slides.
AHSearch is used,
it's the programmatic way
of doing a help:search URL.
And basically it causes HelpViewer
to open and perform a search.
If you're familiar with
the Apple Guide APIs,
that's similar to the
AG Open with Search API.
The top one is the one that
I really want to stress.
That's AHLookupAnchor.
And in my opinion,
it is the most flexible
API that we've presented and
I hope you're going to use it.
As Gordon mentioned,
it makes content authors free to
reorganize the help content as
they see fit without affecting the
development of your application
from the programming side.
Be very careful if you're going to
use this feature to turn on anchor
indexing in the indexing tool.
If you don't do that,
it's not going to work.
Finally, for more information,
you can see these URLs.
I believe that you guys are gonna
get a main URL at the end of this
that is gonna contain all these,
so don't worry about writing them down.
But basically for your reference,
there's an Apple help SDK.
There's a new revision of
the document providing user
assistance with Apple help.
That's the canonical documentation
for all of this stuff,
and so look up stuff using that.
Finally, grab the Carbonlib SDK,
the latest version.
That contains the help
viewer for Carbonlib,
which you'll need if you're a Carbonlib
app and you wanna use our APIs.
And also the newest help indexing tool,
which is what contains
the anchor indexing.
Who to contact.
You can use these email addresses
and these lists to get insider
information about Apple Help.
If you have any questions
or you have any comments,
we really do welcome them,
and so please do get in touch
using any of these methods.
and at this point I'll bring John Galinzi
back up to talk about our user
experience roadmap and to start the Q&A.
Thanks, Jessica.
So the interface builder
session occurred.
Application packaging occurred.
Feedback forum for ACQA occurred.
Carbon and those-- all of those occurred,
but you can watch them on DVD.
Speech Recognition is already done.
Using Aqua and designing Aqua icons.
Still to come.
Great session.
You need to come to that tomorrow.
And then the feedback forum
for the high-level toolbox
if that's of interest to you.